The Joe Rogan experience.
Robert, can you explain some of the, um,
what you ended up finding out was hidden from you?
What was the exculpatory evidence?
Well, uh, they would've,
they would've held that. Uh,
first of all, first of all, uh,
maybe I can explain that the crimes,
right there was a spree of crime that happened in the French quarters in new
Orleans. Um,
there was two at the three armed robberies, uh,
uh, raping the kidnapping and a murder was tied to that tweet.
They took all these crimes and said it was a part of a spree.
All right. They had a, um, a court that was involved, uh,
in the crime. And
they eventually over the period of,
well over the couple of weeks after the crime happened, maybe,
um, it found out who the car that was involved.
And during the time when they was doing the investigation,
my name came up as it it's an anonymous tip came in. Right.
So what we did there was they eventually arrested me
and connected me to the car that was actually
using in, in all these squeezes of crime,
including the murder, the robbery, the kidnappings,
and the rape. Uh, and
years later, uh, eventually find out that
another guy got arrested for the murder, uh,
and was connected. He, in his possession,
he had possessed it
jewelry and all that goes into evidence from each crime spree.
And.
From each of the victims jewelry from the woman that was robbed,
he had clothing from one of the other women. I think the woman that was raped.
Right. Um, and they never turned this over to him.
Right. And so, yeah, they would've, they would've held that,
um, from it, that was that. How did they connect you with the car?
This is what I'm about to explain. They connected me to car,
how they connected me with the car. Uh,
the prosecutor Derek was that like,
when they arrested this guy,
they got him to say that me and him was
friends. And he had,
he allowed me to use the car right at times,
uh, the commit the crime, but all the evidence suggested, uh,
differently.
And so at trial,
what they did was they charge,
he got convicted of the actual murder, right.
He got convicted of murder and they separated him from the other crimes and they
charged me with the other crimes. Right. But, um,
unbeknownst to me, uh, on the day of trial that I was,
uh, uh,
for the rape kidnapping in the armed robberies that,
uh,
he told the prosecutor that I had nothing to do with none of the crimes that he,
I never used the car, none of that. Right.
But when I went to trial, the prosecutor said something totally opposite.
They're prosecuting me on the theory. That means God was best friends.
You're allowing me to use. Did you know him? I didn't know him at all.
And I was seeing him a day in my life.
And the S the short answer to your question, Joe,
about what they had connecting him to the car, a driver's license,
you would think a driver's license, registration, insurance,
someone that had seen them in the car,
the answer is they had absolutely nothing. They had a word,
they had the word of a guy that had been accused and tied to these murders who
was looking to put it on someone else. How did he put it on you though?
He found out that there was a tip implicating him. Right?
Right. Absolutely. And so.
He tried to be a snitch to get the heat off of him and put.
It on you. Absolutely.
And they let that happen.
Yup. Even though they knew. Right. And it goes deeper than that. Uh,
so after I get convicted, uh,
I'm still charged with the, with the murder of the British tourist. Right.
I'm still, I'm still actually charged with it,
even though I haven't been going back and forth to court with it at this time
after I get convicted.
And I knew I was going to get a life sentence for the rape, uh, the kidnapping,
the three armed robbers. Uh,
so the district attorney, uh,
made an offer to my defense attorney, uh,
and eventually bought to me on the deal. My citizen say that, okay,
uh, we could give him 25 years or 21 years for the murder.
You get him a manslaughter. Right. And
I don't know what type of stuff that happens out of my president,
between my attorney and district attorney, but I was scared as.
I just received a life sentence. Uh, I know I was about to,
you sent this to life for the rape and 25 or
whatever, maybe at 99 years for every on robbery. I don't know. I was scared.
So I took the 21 year pleat, but I never meditate anything.
Right.
And a part of that evidence was that the guy,
uh, who we were talking about, that,
that it was initially trying to involve me.
He was found guilty of the murder already. He was already.
So they were trying you for a crime.
They already had convicted someone for absolute.
How is that possible? It happened.
Because what they were trying to say is that if two people are in a car and
you're both out committing crimes, right, you're both responsible,
both responsible. There's something called the felony murder rule.
And the felony murder rule is that if you're in the commission of a crime and
somebody dies of you and I went and robbed the bank and I go
in and start, you know, shooting up with the tellers and kill two tellers,
you're responsible for the murder also.
So the theory of Robert's prosecution was that they were friends,
they were on this crime spree together.
And that even though he was convicted of the murder, um,
you know, he was still responsible and guilty of murder.
It's no different than the James daily case,
which I've talked about before they convicted one guy, Jack PRC.
And then they tried my client. After that one guy got sentenced to life.
One guy got sentenced to death.
It's crazy that they don't have to have any evidence whatsoever that you even
friends with that guy.
Right, right. It had his.
Word. Right.
And, and the, the piece of evidence, another article evidence, there were hell,
is a report that, uh,
that when he made a statement like the morning of my
trial, like I said, that I didn't have anything to do with the murder.
He never knew me and different things of that nature. Uh,
and they withheld that and it, and it would have held that.
And that was the only important to change the outcome of my trial because they
went,
they took me to trial on the theory that we were friends and that I knew him in
that I had connected to him through the car, but had,
I would've had that piece of information that interjected my trial.
I wasn't never, probably got found guilty to that extent.
And they also would have held various different, um, uh,
uh, statements and evidence as released to the witnesses that was very
inconsistent. And that was very favorable to me.
And that could have actually printed back to the, to the guy who was actually,
uh, uh, convicted of the murder, uh,
and attached to all those other spree of crimes. Um,
yeah, so it's, this was, uh, uh, a lot of stuff, man,
that they would have held that almost made it impossible,
um, for me to unravel and to, uh,
to obtain my freedom.
That's uncommon too, but it's not. So in other words,
when prosecutors are working on one theory, full steam ahead, right?
And they then are met with,
you might be wrong. We might've been wrong all along the instinct.
99 times out of a hundred is to plow ahead and rationalize
why the true perpetrator in Robert's case,
why did he, all of a sudden say Robert had nothing to do with it? Oh,
well,
maybe he is making this up because he feels guilty that he implicated his
friend who really wasn't his friend I have in Clemente, a Gary's case,
which we've talked about,
and your listeners know about the true killer confessed.
She confessed over and over again to friends, to neighbors, drunk,
not drunk to police and denying him post-conviction relief.
Now this is a judge, the judge chalked it up as survivor's guilt.
So in other words, whether it's a prosecutors,
judges they'll make an excuse to protect the prosecution,
because it's all about winning or losing.
W what is that? Is that human nature? Is it like,
do people just want to confirm their initial suspicions?
And they rationalize all sorts of reasons why,
what they initially thought was right.
And this new evidence that shows that it's not right is wrong. Like what,
what is it? Is it, they don't, they don't just don't want to be.
They don't want to lose. I think it's a fundamental flaw, um,
that we have as human beings that I share as a Taurus,
I specially share it.
How dare you bring up astrology.
Um, but, but I I'm, I'm stubborn,
but I think as I see this time and time again, and,
and watching juries deliberate,
cause I do mock trials and focus groups or speaking to people post verdict,
but you can apply it to politics and to anything.
I think of one fundamental flaw we have as mammals is
our inability to be flexible in our reasoning.
And I think that once we make a decision about something, it's very,
very difficult to get people to reconsider.
I see that in really intelligent people too. And it's makes me sad.
It's maddening. It's mad. It drives me crazy. Cause it's like you,
weren't part of the problem. I think with police, with prosecutors,
with the whole legal system is that it becomes a
game. And I don't mean a game. Like it's a joke. I mean,
a game like you're trying to win. Yes.
And whenever someone is involved in something where they're trying to win,
they do whatever the they can. People cheat, they move golf balls, right? They,
they do whatever the they can. Don't look at Jamie.
Whenever I hear people moving those [inaudible] here, golf.
Well, well people cheat, man. They,
they find ways to pretend that they didn't do something when they did it.
They find ways to justify the things that they did.
Do they find ways to pass the buck and put it on if,
if they can score that w right. And you see cops do it. They,
they, they plant evidence on someone they think was probably guilty,
but they don't have enough evidence on them. They find rationalizations.
And it's because there's a game going on, it's a win or lose.
And it becomes a real problem. And not only that with a lot of cops,
there's quotas, like you literally have to arrest a certain amount of people.
Right. Which is insanity. Like, what the did they do? If no one commits a crime?
What do they do? If no one speeds.
If you have a quota where you have to arrest a hundred people for speeding,
what the do you do? If everybody makes an agreement, we all get on Facebook.
And we say, Hey,
let's everybody drive the speed limit for the next 60 days.
And let's crush the legal system because these cops have to,
they have to make a certain amount of pullovers.
They have to pull a certain amount of people over, right.
A certain amount of tickets. They have quotas. If you don't meet those quotas,
they get in trouble. So what the kind of.
Right. I would say, uh, uh, a lot, a lot of that,
a lot of just like we have structural racism, right.
And when I say squat, your race, I mean like institutional, uh, uh,
things that set up through, uh, regulation, rules and policies red line, right?
Uh,
and you just have like a flawless in a variety of different
systems. They got people that work for company.
They got a lot of Florida's and they don't really,
they don't really understand that you're employed in a system that,
that, that treat people unfair cause people home and you can't even see it.
And some people can be a part of a system of part of a program or part of an
organization that, uh,
have that wind mentality, right. That when women,
by all costs mentality and
they lose their empathy for people. Right. And,
and when people lose their empathy, when, you know,
we did find those days and a lot of people don't like, uh,
they're here hearing this type of, but when you lose your empathy for people,
you become technical as social pack.
Watch the entire episode for free, only on Spotify.